Release History
===============

Unreleased Changes
------------------
* Added a ``geoprocessing.get_unique_values`` which is a parallelized
  operation to determine the unique values in a raster.
* Removed the output of temporary token  ``.ECOSHARDED`` and
  ``.BUILDOVERIVEWS`` files.
* Added a ``--ndv [VALUE]`` flag that replaces the nodata value of a raster
  with the provided one. If the nodata value existed prior, the values of
  those values are replaced with the given value as well as many
  non-finite values with this value.
* Added a ``--remove_hash [HASH FN]`` function that can copy or rename a
  filename with an embedded hash to remove the hash entirely.
* Added Python threaded paralelization to ``convolve_2d`` and included an
  additional parameter ``largest_block`` to set the size of the work units
  processed in parallel.
* Added ``ecoshard.utils`` package for functionality that's repeatedly
  useful when processing GIS data.
* Added parallel processing to ``raster_calculator``.
* Modified ``reclassify_raster`` to let undefined codes map to nodata by
  default rather than raising an exception.
* Added an ``output_type`` flag to ``warp_raster`` so it can be used to
  aggregate from a base type like a byte, to a float if an interpolation
  scheme causes more information to be created.
* Added ``'geometry_type'`` field to ``get_vector_info`` that is useful to
  pass when calling ``reproject_vector``.
* Added ``n_workers`` to ``convolve_2d`` to help control memory overflow
  errors by reducing the number of simultaneous workers.
* ``raster_calculator`` now raises an exception if passed rasters that are
  not of the same blocksize, added an additional parameter,
  ``allow_different_blocksizes`` to override this behavior.
* Added an 'all_touched' option to any ``vector_mask_option`` in
  ``geoprocessing`` to allow for the ALL_TOUCHED=TRUE OGR clipping algorithm
  on polygons.
* Removed the ``values_required`` argument from
  ``geoprocessing.reclassify_raster`` to streamline implementation and
  remove non-orthogonality in the API.
* Upgrading ``shapely`` dependancy to version 2.0.
* Adding ``target_mask_value`` option for ``warp_raster``
  ``vector_mask_option`` to set target nodata value when masking a raster
  by vector coverage.
* Fixing issue where taskgraph wouldn't filter logs based on outer level
  setting.
* Changed default of ``geometry_type`` in ``reproject_vector`` to be ``None``
  to either default to the geometry type of the input layer or require a user
  to set it manually.
* Adding a ``get_pixel_area_in_target_projection`` function which calculates
  the area of a pixel of a raster if transformed to the target projection
  system.
* Allowing for a ``allow_different_blocksizes`` in ``iterblocks``.
* Fixed an issue in ``fetch_and_clip`` where a lat/long raster ranging from
  0-360 longitude would have a 0 valued strip to the left of the meridian
  when clipped to a -180/180 range.
* Fixed issue where NaNs present in the raster would cause a complex number
  to be generated when calculating raster stats.

0.7.0 (2022/02/07)
------------------
* Added ``--hash_length`` flag to command line to limit the hash character
  length of hashed files.
* Added functionality to run ``python -m ecoshard process ...`` command in
  parallel if multiple files match the file pattern target.

0.6.1 (2022/01/24)
------------------
* Added a ``run_parallel`` flag to allow for parallel warps
  ``geoprocessing.stitch_rasters`` for parallel warping of rasters.

0.6.0 (2022/01/24)
------------------
* Added functionality to publish a local file directly to an EcoShard server.
  This is available in the command line publish command whose arguments have
  been redefined from the previous version.
* Added flag to allow for multi-thread version of TaskGraph.
* Fixed issue with geoprocessing bounding box projection on exotic projections
  such as sinusoidal to wgs84.
* Added a ``get_utm_zone`` function that calculates the EPSG code for the
  major UTM zones given a lat/lng coordinate.
* Fixed an issue that would cause a crash in stitching rasters where the base
  raster was too far up/left of the target stitch raster but still overlapped
  with the stitch target.
* Added functionality to ``geoprocessing.routing`` to extract stream layer
  based on Strahler stream order and build subwatersheds and vector stream
  layer from that information.

    * ``geoproceesing.routing.extract_strahler_streams_d8``
    * ``geoprocessing.routing.calculate_subwatershed_boundary``

* Added functionality to detect the lowest drain or sink in a DEM in
  ``geoprocessing.routing.detect_lowest_drain_and_sink``.
* Added functionality to detect all outlets as a geometry layer in
  ``geoprocessing.routing.detect_outlets``.
* Added a ``--hash_substring_len`` flag to limit the number of characters in
  the hash generated by ``--hash_file``.

0.4.0 (2019/04/13)
------------------
* Changed behavior of command line function, now takes one of two primary
  commands ``process`` or ``publish``. The command ``process`` behaves like
  the original command line utility with same arguments and behavior. The
  ``publish`` command takes a Google Bucket URI, host to an ecoshard server,
  and an api key and published the raster to that server.
* Fixed an issue when summing up that would ignore nodata values.
* Fixes an issue where the overview interpolation argument was ignored.
* Added a ``download_and_unzip`` function to the API.

0.3.3 (2019/11/09)
------------------
* Fixed an issue that would cause the download rate to be under estimated.

0.3.1 (2019/10/07)
------------------
* Fixing an issue in download_to_url where the file might not be flushed and the
  final log message is not printed.

0.3.0 (2019/09/26)
------------------
* Added a new command line mode –reduce_factor that reduces the number of pixels
  in a raster by that integer amount. Ex:

    ``python -m ecoshard base.tif --reduce_factor 4 max target.tif``

    this call makes the size of the pixels in base.tif 4 times larger on the
    edge, thus reducing the total size of the image by 16 times, the convolution
    upsample is done with a "max" and the output file is ``target.tif``. The
    modes "min", "max", "sum", "average", "mode" are available.

0.2.2 (2019/09/24)
------------------
* Added a ``download_url`` function to ``ecoshard`` to fetch files via
  http(s).
* Developing Flask module to visualize ecoshards.

0.2.1 (2019/06/28)
------------------
* Hotfix: gs to gsutil for copying to buckets.

0.2.0 (2019/06/28)
------------------
* Added functionality to download a url.
* Added functionality to copy to a google bucket.
* Fixed an issue on functions that should write a token file but didn't.

0.1.1 (2019/06/27)
------------------
* Added a ``--force`` flag to the command line utility.

0.0.2 (2019/06/26)
------------------
* Initial release.
